Time to edit products and for this, I'll first of all work on my admin.js file in the controllers folder.
There we have two routes that are or two functions that are related to editing products. To get edit
product page which is responsible for fetching the product that should be edited and for rendering it
and the post edit product page which is responsible for saving these changes to the database,
I'll comment both back in
and let's start with get edit
product. There the majority of the code can stay as it is
but when we then fetch the fitting product, we of course do this differently,
we use product find by id and we find the product with Prod ID like this
and then we still get back products however,
well actually we don't get back products anymore,
we get back one product here so no need to store it in a constant like this and extract it from an array,
we get back one product automatically because we wrote that method in such a way and we therefore can
render this product,
so this should work.
Now let's quickly have a look at the view that belongs to this controller action,
so to this edit product.ejs file and in there, you know what I'm looking for,
we want to make sure we're always using product_id when using the product ID just to make
sure that we extract the right thing from the document we get back from the server.
So now with that, we get everything in place to hopefully make this edit button work partly, if I click on
it,
well almost, let's leave it on this page.
The controller should work but in the routes in the admin.js file, I of course have a comment this get route
back in,
so let's make sure this is done.
And now that if we now reload that page, we indeed see the form with the default values filled back in.
So now this is working
but of course it's not that useful to only see the data
and we were able to fetch data before, the interesting part now would be to update it. Now to update it,
let's go back to the product model.
How could we update our product which is stored in the database? Well
let's go to the constructor and let's add a fifth argument here, the ID and then I'll say this _id
is equal to the ID I'm getting here,
you could name this _id here too if you wanted to.
So now we accept a kind of optional fifth argument,
we're not passing it in the other places of the app
but here I do at least create the option of passing this too. An ID will therefore be undefined and be
auto generated by mongodb
or we did set it and then when we called save, I don't want to insert one,
I want to create a new product instead.
So for this what I'll do is I'll simply check if this _id, if that is set and if it is set,
we'll update the product
otherwise we'll insert it,
so I'll move my const db function up there,
I always need access to the database in both cases
and now I'll create a new variable, let dbOp for db operation and in the else case where we insert
a document, dbOp is equal to my connection to the database and then connecting to collection and then
inserting one and then down there, I can use dbOp to follow along and actually return that.
So now I have one case where dbOp is simply my insert command and then I return my result or dbOp
is access to my database and to the products collection still
but then here I use update one and as the name suggests, update one will update exactly one element.
There also is update many where you can update multiple elements at once
but here I know I only want to update one, so I can use update one
and now update one takes at least two arguments.
The first one is that we add a filter that defines which element or which document we want to update,
so here again I'll pass a javascript object and we can filter for equality also
or run more complex queries which you again can learn about
in my mongodb course if you want to and here
I only want to find a document where the _id is equal to
and now again I'll create a new mongodb objectid to which I pass this _id, so the ID which
is part of that object here.
So I'm looking for a document where the ID matches the ID I have here in my product I'm currently working
with and for that document, we now as a second argument to update one,
we now specify how to update that document.
This again is a javascript object where we describe the update and this is now not the new object,
so we don't say this here as you could imagine that we tell mongodb find me the existing
document and replace it with this, update
one does not replace.
Instead we have to describe the operation and we do this by using a special property name which is understood
by mongodb, kind of a reserved name you could say, $set.
This again takes an object as a value
and here we describe the changes we want to make to the existing document which we found with this
filter.
And here you could actually say this and you would instruct mongodb to simply set these key value fields
which you have in your object here to the document it found in the database
and therefore since these are only key value pairs which exist in the document in the database, it will
update the values of the document in the database with your new values.
You could also write this in a more verbose way and explicitly say title should be equal to this title
and so on
but since we want to replace all fields, we can just say this here. And now with that we have a database
operation that will update an existing database object,
by the way the ID will not be overwritten or anything like that, only the other fields are.
So with that let's go back to our admin.js controller and and in post added product, that is the part I
want to work on in the next lecture to make sure that we actually are able to save our product.